first draft of martinize2 command tutorials (#616)
marrink-lab/vermouth-martinize: doc/source/tutorials/go_models.rst

=========
Go models
=========

GoMartini is a popular method for retaining the secondary and tertiary structures of proteins originating from the lab

> of `Adolfo Poma <https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00986>`_. In contrast to an elastic network, the Go

Reviewer: This might be misunderstood. Go models have been around for a long time, but I think it is reasonable to say Adolfo was the first to apply to M3. However, might be worth checking this fact with Siewert.

 molecule_0_22 molecule_0_18 1 0.54218134 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.6085779754055839
 molecule_0_23 molecule_0_19 1 0.53307395 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.5983552758317587
 ...

To activate your Go model for use in Gromacs, the `martini_v3.0.0.itp` master itp needs the additional files included.
The additional atomtypes defined in the ``go_atomtypes.itp`` file should be included at the end of the `[ atomtypes ]`
directive as::

 [ atomtypes ]
 ...
 TX1er 36.0 0.000 A 0.0 0.0
 W  72.0 0.000 A 0.0 0.0
 SW 54.0 0.000 A 0.0 0.0
 TW 36.0 0.000 A 0.0 0.0
 U  24.0 0.000 A 0.0 0.0

 #ifdef GO_VIRT
 #include "go_atomtypes.itp"
 #endif

 [ nonbond_params ]
 P6    P6  1 4.700000e-01    4.990000e+00
 P6    P5  1 4.700000e-01    4.730000e+00
 P6    P4  1 4.700000e-01    4.480000e+00
 ...

Similarly, the nonbonded parameters should be included at the end of the `[ nonbond_params ]`
directive::

 ...
 TX2er  SQ1n  1 3.660000e-01    3.528000e+00
 TX2er  TQ1n  1 3.520000e-01    5.158000e+00
 TX1er   Q1n  1 3.950000e-01    1.981000e+00
 TX1er  SQ1n  1 3.780000e-01    3.098000e+00
 TX1er  TQ1n  1 3.660000e-01    4.422000e+00

 #ifdef GO_VIRT

>  #include "go_nbparams.itp"

Reviewer: @csbrasnett should we perhaps update the master itp supplied via the new website?

Author: I agree, have opened an issue [here](https://github.com/Martini-Force-Field-Initiative/Martini-Force-Field-Initiative.github.io/issues/41)

 #endif

Then in the .top file for your system, simply include `#define GO_VIRT` along with the other files
to be included to active the Go network in your model.

As a shortcut for writing the include statements above, you can simply include these files in your master
``martini_v3.0.0.itp`` file with the following commands::

 sed -i "s/\[ nonbond_params \]/\#ifdef GO_VIRT\n\#include \"go_atomtypes.itp\"\n\#endif\n\n\[ nonbond_params \]/" martini_v3.0.0.itp

>  echo -e "\n#ifdef GO_VIRT \n#include \"go_nbparams.itp\"\n#endif" >> martini_v3.0.0.itp

Reviewer: Put a note that his only works in bash shell

to the `web server <http://pomalab.ippt.pan.pl/GoContactMap/>`_.

The contact map is then used in your martinize2 command:

``martinize2 -f protein.pdb -o topol.top -x cg_protein.pdb -ff martini3001 -dssp -go contact_map.out``

Without any further additions, this will:
 1) Generate virtual sites with the atomname ``CA`` directly on top of all the backbone beads in your protein.
    Each ``CA`` atom has an underlying atomtype (see below), which has a default name specified using the
    ``-go-moltype`` flag.
 2) Use the contact map to generate a set of non-bonded parameters between specific pairs of ``CA`` atoms in your molecule
    with strength 9.414 kJ/mol (changed through the ``-go-eps`` flag).
 3) Eliminate any parameters which are shorter than 0.3 nm and longer than 1.1 nm, or are closer than 3 residues in the
    molecular graph. These options are flexible through the ``-go-low`` and ``-go-up`` flags.
 4) If the contact map finds any atoms within contact range defined, but are *also* within 3 residues of each other,
    then the contacts are removed. This is defined through the ``-go-res-dist`` flag.

> As a result, along with the standard output of martinize2 (ie. itp files for your molecules, a generic .top file,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, along with the standard output of martinize2 (*i.e.* itp files for your molecules, a generic .top file,
```

 [ atomtypes ]
 molecule_0_1 0.0 0 A 0.00000000 0.00000000
 molecule_0_2 0.0 0 A 0.00000000 0.00000000
 molecule_0_3 0.0 0 A 0.00000000 0.00000000
 molecule_0_4 0.0 0 A 0.00000000 0.00000000
 molecule_0_5 0.0 0 A 0.00000000 0.00000000
 ...

Similarly, ``go_nbparams.itp`` looks like any ``[ nonbond_params ]`` directive (obviously, the exact parameters here
depend on your protein)::

 [ nonbond_params ]
 molecule_0_17 molecule_0_13 1 0.59354169 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.666228018941817
 molecule_0_18 molecule_0_14 1 0.53798937 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.6038726468003999
 molecule_0_19 molecule_0_15 1 0.51270658 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.5754936778307316
 molecule_0_22 molecule_0_15 1 0.73815666 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.8285528398039018
 molecule_0_22 molecule_0_18 1 0.54218134 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.6085779754055839
 molecule_0_23 molecule_0_19 1 0.53307395 9.41400000 ;go bond 0.5983552758317587
 ...

To activate your Go model, you can simply include these files in your master ``martini_v3.0.0.itp`` file with the
following commands::

 sed -i "s/\[ nonbond_params \]/\#ifdef GO_VIRT\n\#include \"go_atomtypes.itp\"\n\#endif\n\n\[ nonbond_params \]/" martini_v3.0.0.itp

>  echo -e "\n#ifdef GO_VIRT \n#include \"go_nbparams.itp\"\n#endif" >> martini_v3.0.0.itp

Reviewer 2: I'm not the biggest fan of this. I think a short code block with what to add to the itp or top file is clearer

=========
Gō models
=========

The MartiniGō model is a method of maintaining secondary and tertiary structure using native contacts of proteins
to create a `Gō-like model <https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00986>`_ between beads.

> In contrast to an elastic network, the Go model applies non-bonded interactions between pairs of

Reviewer 2: Missed an overbar here

beads within a protein based on residue overlap and restricted chemical structural unit criteria.

The latest version of Martinize2 (version ≥ 0.10.0) implements the newest version of the

> `Gō model <https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.04.15.589479v1>`_. In this version of the Go model, interactions

Reviewer 2: Overbar

   -go-res-dist GO_RES_DIST
                         Minimum graph distance (similar sequence distance) below which contacts are removed. (default: 3)

To add a Gō model to your protein, the first step is to calculate the contact map of your protein by uploading it

> to the `web server <http://pomalab.ippt.pan.pl/GoContactMap/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a Gō model to your protein, the first step is to calculate the contact map of your protein by uploading it
to the `web server <http://pomalab.ippt.pan.pl/GoContactMap/>`_ (a pull request to have martinize2 calculate it independently is most welcome).
```
